When my brother Jem was almost 13 he broke his arm, badly.  Even though it healed, we always talked about what really caused the accident.  I said the Ewells, but he said Dill and Boo Radley started it.  But then he said if our ancestors, the Finches had never moved to Alabama, then none of this would have happened, and the rest is history.
We're southerners.  We think it's a big deal who your family is, where you've come from, and what you're known for.  Our ancestor, Simon Finch, was a stingy and religious man.  He saved up all his money to buy up Finch's Landing, and for generations that's where our family has lived.  My Aunt Alexandra still lives here now with her quiet husband.  My father Atticus Finch, went to Montgomery, Alabama to study law, and his brother Jack went to Boston to study to be a doctor.  My father moved back to Maycomb once he finished law school.

Maycomb was a tired, old town back in those days.  People moved slowly, ambling across the town square.  Days seemed long, especially on hot summer days.  People didn't hurry, because there was nowhere to go, nothing to buy, no money to buy it with, and nothing to see.
We lived on the main street, Atticus, Jem, and I.  Our father played with us, read to us, and treated us fine.  We had a cook too, Calpurnia.  She was strict with me.  She always asked me why I didn't behave as well as Jem.  But he was older anyhow.  She always won our battles; my father always took her side.  Our mother died of a heart attack when I was two so I didn't remember her.  Jem seemed to miss her though.

The Radley house had sagging shingles, and a drooping porch.  The grass was too high and the paint had turned gray and dingy.  Even in the long, hot summer, the doors were shut up tight.  There was a rumor that it was haunted.  People said "Boo" Radley went out at night and peeped in people's windows.  That he breathed on flowers and they froze instantly.  They said he committed little crimes in the night but not one ever saw him.
The history of the story is that Arthur, "Boo", got into a bad crowd in high school.  They swore, fought, and got into real trouble when they locked a court officer in the outhouse (bathroom).  Boo's father was so strict that the judge let him take Boo home, and no one had seen him since.  Years later, the story goes, Boo was making a scrapbook out of articles from the Maycomb Tribune when he stabbed his father with a pair of scissors, and kept right on cutting.
Mr. Radley was not a nice man.  He went to town each day but never spoke to us even if we said "Good Morning, Sir."
When he died, Calpurnia said, "There goes the meanest man God ever blew breath into."  The neighborhood thought maybe Boo would come out, but his older brother Nathan moved in and he was just as mean.  Atticus didn't like us to talk about the Radleys much, but the more we told Dill about the Radleys, the more he wanted to know.  He would stand there hugging the light pole.

Three days later, after Dill had taunted him and called him scared repeatedly, Jem finally gave in.  He walked slowly to the Radley yard, threw open the gate, sped to the house, slapped it with his hand, and sprinted back to us.  When we were safe on our porch, we looked back at the old, droopy house.  We thought we saw a slight movement inside.

After school let out, we went home and made sure to run past the Radley's house.  We met Atticus when he got home from work.  Calpurnia had made a special treat of mine for dinner and I was sure that Calpurnia had seen her errors in the way she treated me at lunch.
That night, Atticus asked me if I was ready to read with him.  I got real uncomfortable.  Atticus noticed that something was bothering me so he asked me what was wrong.  I told him all that had happened in the day and even the part about Miss Caroline saying that he had taught me all wrong so we couldn't read together anymore.  I told Atticus that I didn't want to go to school anymore.  Atticus tries to interpret some of the confusing episodes of the day for me.  He says, "If you can learn a simple trick Scout, you'll get along a lot better with all kinds of folks.  You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view -- ... until you climb into his skin and walk around in it." (p. 30).  I learned that the Cuninghams are poor but honest people and that Miss Caroline made some honest mistakes.  We couldn't expect her to have learned all the ways of Maycomb in one day.

On the conversation of the Ewells, Atticus says that the law bends a little for them.  The people allow them certain privileges by being a Ewell and living in their situation.  They don't have to go to school and Mr. Bob Ewell, the father, is permitted to hunt and trap animals out of season.  He is allowed to do this because he spends all of his welfare money on whiskey and his children to hungry.  The food that he hunts goes to feeding his children so nobody would say that he can't hunt even if it is out of season.  Atticus says that you can't punish the children for the father's faults.
Atticus and I made a compromise.  If I agreed to go to school, then we could continue reading together each night, but we better keep it a secret.

My school year went on pretty uneventfully.  One day while walking home alone, I ran past the Radley's house as I normally do.  This time, however, something caught my eye.  I took a deep breath, turned around, and went back.
Next to the Radley house there were two tall oak trees.  One of the trees had a knot-hole and there was some shiny tinfoil sticking out of it.  I stuck my hand in the knot-hole and pulled out two pieces of chewing gum (Wrigley's Double-Mint).  I quickly snatched it up and ran home, even though I wanted to cram it into my mouth.  Once I got to the porch, I inspected my find.  I sniffed and licked it, and when I didn't die, I put the gum in my mouth.
Jem came home and wondered where I got the gum.  I finally told him that I found it in the Radley's tree.  Jem yells, "Spit it out right now!  Don't you know you're not supposed to even touch the trees over there?  You'll get killed if you do!" and I obeyed.
